Adds new section about Prompt support. (#2660)
port-labs/port-docs: docs/ai-agents/port-mcp-server.md

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Prompts

> In Port, you can centrally manage reusable prompts and expose them to your users via the MCP Server. Once defined in Port, these prompts become available in supported MCP clients (for example, Cursor or Claude) where developers can discover and run them with the required inputs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Port, you can centrally manage reusable prompts and expose them to your users via the MCP Server. Once defined in Port, these prompts become available in supported MCP clients (for example, Cursor or Claude) where developers and AI agents can discover and run them with the required inputs.
```

#### Common use cases

- Automate on-call runbooks and incident triage guidance
- Standardize code review or deployment checklists
- Generate structured updates and communications (e.g., incident status, release notes)

#### Setup data model

> Add the following blueprint in Port to model prompts:

Reviewer: Can you take the structure in the guides, similar to this guide https://docs.port.io/guides/all/ingest-okta-data-via-airbyte-s3-and-webhook#add-blueprints

To explain how to actually add this JSON

}
```

</details>

:::info Where prompts appear
Once this blueprint exists and you create entities for it, prompts will show up in supported MCP clients connected to your Port organization. In clients that surface MCP prompts, you’ll see them listed and ready to run with arguments.
:::

#### Create prompts

Create entities of the `prompt` blueprint for each prompt you want to expose. At minimum, provide `description` and `template`. Optionally add `arguments` to parameterize the prompt.

1. Go to the Prompts page in Port
2. Click "Create prompt"
3. Fill the form:
   - Provide a title and description
   - Write the prompt template (supports markdown)
   - Define any `arguments` (optional) with `name`, `description`, and whether they are `required`

![Create prompt form in Port](/img/ai-agents/PortPromptForm.png)

:::info Template and placeholders
The `template` supports markdown and variable placeholders. Each argument defined in `arguments` is exposed by its `name` and can be referenced as `{{name}}` inside the template. When you run the prompt, the MCP Server collects values for required arguments and substitutes them into the matching `{{}}` placeholders before execution.
:::

> After creating entities, reconnect or refresh your MCP client; your prompts will be available to run and will prompt for any defined arguments.

Reviewer: Here I would add 2-3 examples of real prompts and how placehodlrs are relevant in them

Reviewer: Maybe a tab for each use case

            },
            "required": {
              "type": "boolean",
              "description": "Whether this argument is required or optional",
              "default": false
            }
          },
          "required": [
            "name",
            "description"
          ]
        },
        "type": "array",
        "title": "Arguments"
      },
      "template": {
        "icon": "DefaultProperty",
        "type": "string",
        "title": "Prompt Template",
        "format": "markdown"
      }
    },
    "required": [
      "description",
      "template"
    ]
  },
  "mirrorProperties": {},
  "calculationProperties": {},
  "aggregationProperties": {},
  "relations": {}
}
```

</details>

:::info Where prompts appear
Once this blueprint exists and you create entities for it, prompts will show up in supported MCP clients connected to your Port organization. In clients that surface MCP prompts, you’ll see them listed and ready to run with arguments.
:::

#### Create prompts

Create entities of the `prompt` blueprint for each prompt you want to expose. At minimum, provide `description` and `template`. Optionally add `arguments` to parameterize the prompt.

> 1. Go to the [Prompts page](https://app.getport.io/prompts) in Port
> 2. Click "Create prompt"
> 3. Fill the form:
>    - Provide a title and description
>    - Write the prompt template (supports markdown)
>    - Define any `arguments` (optional) with `name`, `description`, and whether they are `required`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Go to the [Prompts page](https://app.getport.io/prompts) in your portal.
2. Click `Create prompt`.
3. Fill out the form:
   - Provide a title and description.
   - Write the prompt template (supports markdown).
   - Define any `arguments` (optional) with `name`, `description`, and whether they are `required`.
```
